Tables
================

## Fisher’s Exact Test

The story of Fisher’s exact test are as follows: “Ronald Fisher, a Bad
Cup of Tea, and the Birth of Modern Statistics”,
\[<https://www.sciencehistory.org/distillations/ronald-fisher-a-bad-cup-of-tea-and-the-birth-of-modern-statistics>\]

``` r
teat=matrix(c(4,0,0,4), ncol=2)
fisher.test(teat)
```

    ##
    ##  Fisher's Exact Test for Count Data
    ##
    ## data:  teat
    ## p-value = 0.02857
    ## alternative hypothesis: true odds ratio is not equal to 1
    ## 95 percent confidence interval:
    ##  1.339059      Inf
    ## sample estimates:
    ## odds ratio
    ##        Inf

``` r
chisq.test(teat)
```

    ## Warning in chisq.test(teat): Chi-squared approximation may be incorrect

    ##
    ##  Pearson's Chi-squared test with Yates' continuity correction
    ##
    ## data:  teat
    ## X-squared = 4.5, df = 1, p-value = 0.03389

As we can see the result, Dr. Bristol’s ability is statistically
significant with 5% critical level. Because of the number of
observation, only 8 here makes a little gap between Fisher’s exact test
and Chi square test but they will converge on the same value as the
sample size increases.

## Cochran-Armitage Trend Test

Sometimes we want to analyze the results as the intensity increases.
However, the maximum intensity can bring some side-effect too. In this
scenario, we would better use Chi-squared test as well to compare the
results.

|             | low | medium | high |
|:-----------:|:---:|:------:|:----:|
|  favorable  |  13 |     10 |   10 |
| unfavarable |  29 |      4 |   18 |
|     sum     |  42 |     14 |   28 |

``` r
prop.trend.test(c(13,10,10),c(42,14,28))
```

    ##
    ##  Chi-squared Test for Trend in Proportions
    ##
    ## data:  c(13, 10, 10) out of c(42, 14, 28) ,
    ##  using scores: 1 2 3
    ## X-squared = 0.38724, df = 1, p-value = 0.5338

``` r
x=matrix(c(13,29,10,4,10,18), ncol=3)
chisq.test(x)
```

    ##
    ##  Pearson's Chi-squared test
    ##
    ## data:  x
    ## X-squared = 7.4367, df = 2, p-value = 0.02427

The trend test result shows we cannot find the significant trend on the dataset but the Chi-squared result tells us that the intensity and the outcome have a significant correlation. **One thing we need to note is that when you use the trend test, we use the ratio between one dependent variable and the sum.**

## McNemar Test

This test is used when binary values are matched. If Chi-squared test is corresponding to a t-test, McNemar is to a paired t-test.

``` r
x=matrix(c(5,15,5,7),ncol=2)
mcnemar.test(x)
```

    ##  McNemar's Chi-squared test with continuity correction
    ##  
    ##  data:  x
    ##  McNemar's chi-squared = 4.05, df = 1, p-value = 0.04417    
